Kabir Singh is a 2019 Indian Hindi-language romantic drama film written and directed by Sandeep Reddy Vanga and jointly produced by Bhushan Kumar and Krishan Kumar under T-Series Films and Murad Khetani and Ashwin Varde under Cine1 Studios.[4] A remake of Vanga's own debut Telugu film Arjun Reddy (2017), it stars Shahid Kapoor in the titular role as a surgeon who spirals into self-destruction when his girlfriend, Preeti, played by Kiara Advani, marries someone else. Adil Hussain, Nikita Dutta, Arjan Bajwa, Suresh Oberoi, Dolly Minhas, Suparna Marwah, Anurag Arora, Soham Majumdar, Kunal Thakur, Anusha Sampath, Amit Sharma and Kamini Kaushal feature in supporting roles.

Principal photography for Kabir Singh began in October 2018 and ended in March 2019. The film was theatrically released in India on 21 June 2019 and received mixed reviews with criticism directed at it glamorising misogyny and toxic masculinity, though Kapoor's performance and the soundtrack were praised. Grossing over ₹380 crore, it became the second highest grossing Bollywood film of 2019,[5] and Kapoor's highest grossing solo-lead release.Kabir Rajdheer Singh, a house surgeon at the Delhi Institute of Medical Sciences, suffers from severe anger management problems that gain him the reputation of a bully. After a brawl, Kabir is asked to either apologise or leave; he chooses to leave but stays upon seeing a new student, Preeti Sikka.

Later, Kabir and his friends announce that he has exclusively claimed Preeti. Initially timid, she adjusts to his overbearing attitude and eventually reciprocates his feelings, developing an intimate relationship. Kabir graduates with an MBBS degree and moves to Mussoorie for post-graduation. Despite the distance, their relationship strengthens over the next few years. After Preeti graduates, he meets her conservative parents, but her father Harpal catches them kissing and throws him out.

Harpal continues to oppose their relationship, despite Kabir's attempts to explain their love. Enraged, he asks Preeti to choose between him and her family within the next six hours, or he will end their relationship. Preeti fails to reach back to him in time; feeling abandoned, Kabir injects himself with morphine and remains unconscious for the next two days. On gaining consciousness, he finds out that Preeti is being forced into an arranged marriage and gate crashes the wedding party; Harpal has him beaten and arrested. After his release, his father, Rajdheer, ostracises him from the family for his antics.

With his friend Shiva’s help, he finds a rented flat and joins a private hospital as a surgeon. To cope with his emotions, he abuses drugs and alcohol, attempts one-night stands, has casual relationships, buys a pet dog — none of which are successful. Within months, he becomes a successful surgeon and a high-functioning alcoholic both respected and feared by the hospital staff. His self-destructive behaviour and obsession worry his friends.

While hungover on a day-off, he is called in to perform an emergency surgery for which he unwillingly agrees. During the procedure, he collapses from dehydration. Suspicious, the hospital staff take his blood samples, which contain traces of alcohol and cocaine. A case is filed against him and during an in-house hearing, a broken Kabir admits to alcoholism and violation of medical ethics. As a result, his medical license is suspended for five years and he is evicted from his flat. The next morning, he learns of his grandmother’s death; at the funeral, he and Rajdheer reconcile and he resolves to quit his habits.

Some days later, Kabir spots a pregnant but dejected Preeti sitting in a park. He approaches and offers to raise the child with her if she is unhappy in her marriage. Initially silent, she bursts into angry tears, yells at him for discarding her and asks him to leave. Shiva then describes Kabir's obsession and self-destructive habits, which she was unaware of. Shocked, she confesses that she left her husband three days after the marriage and has been working in a clinic to support herself. Overcome with anger, especially after hearing about his casual affair with an actress, she had refused to contact him. In a plot twist, she reveals that her marriage was never consummated and that the child was Kabir’s. They marry and reunite with their families, with Harpal apologising to them. The film ends with them on a beach with their baby.